# Confluence app integration

## Confluence Cloud app ideas

I spent a bit of time today looking into the Confluence Cloud API. There
are some projects that I've wanted to look into developing.

One of them is trying to solve the problem of there being tons of
Confluence docs all over an organization, many of which may be out of
date, unused, or of unknown veracity.

One idea is that you can assign pages to people and give them reminders
in Confluence to update the page after a certain amount of time. Another
idea is that you could crawl the Confluence links across the
organization and generate a report or filterable visualization that
helps you find delete-able content.

## Confluence integrations and basic setup

Confluence gives you a few ways that you can integrate with them,
ranging from using their own frameworks (sellable on the Confluence app
store, hosted by Confluence) to making a standalone 3P application (not
sellable, self-hosted). [This page gives a good overview of the
different integration
points.](https://web.archive.org/web/20210627200851/https://developer.atlassian.com/developer-guide/cloud-development-platform-overview/)
I started out by following the steps in making a [new Connect
App](https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/confluence/getting-started-with-connect/)
which set up my Confluence space for me and allowed me to get an API key
for subsequent steps.

## Postman + Confluence

For anyone interested in starting by checking out the data they expose
as quickly as possible, I recommend using the Swagger / OpenAPI Spec
that Confluence has sneakily posted on their [REST API docs
page](https://web.archive.org/web/20210627200922/https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/confluence/rest/intro/)
(click the ellipses next to "Rate this page").

Once you have the URL, you can import the collection and the API into
Postman.

Some things to take note of:

-   You might want to fork the Collection before you make changes just
    so you don't have to continually delete and re-import the Open API
    spec.
-   Most URLs will need to have the params disabled before they will
    work for you because the default param values are often invalid
-   If you want to just get up and running ASAP, you might want to just
    use Basic Auth (as described below) and make sure to switch the auth
    method for each request you are using.

Since the default Postman collection API auth method is set to OAuth 2,
and I wanted to start pulling data as quickly as possible, instead of
messing about with OAuth 2, I just set all the sub-folders in the
Postman collection to inherit from the parent, and then at the parent
level in Postman, set up "Basic Auth" in Postman with my Confluence
email/username as the username, and a [generated API
key](https://id.atlassian.com/manage-profile/security/api-tokens) as the
password (also see: [this
link](https://support.atlassian.com/atlassian-account/docs/manage-api-tokens-for-your-atlassian-account/))

Just in case you hit bumps along the way, assuming you have:

-   generated an API key
-   have a Confluence Server Cloud domain

you should be able to run a request like this and get a 2XX back, with
of course your email, real token, and real domain replacing the below.

``` bash
curl -D-    -u user@example.com:api_token_here -X GET  -H "Content-Type: application/json"    https://mydomain.atlassian.net/wiki/rest/api/space
```

## Crawling confluence

I wanted to focus on the possibilities for the Confluence link crawler,
so I was trying to find out which endpoints could give me the most
easily consumable access to URLs / links.

I found by trial and error that this endpoint, Get content by ID:

``` markdown
`/api/content/:id?expand=body.dynamic`
```

will return a JSON blob of structured content that represents the
content blocks on your page, including rich-formatted links, which
allows you to avoid nasty string parsing, at the cost of ripping through
deeply nested JSON.

I only discovered this JSON option after seeing [this
link](https://community.atlassian.com/t5/Confluence-questions/how-to-get-full-content-body-html-using-confluence-REST-API/qaq-p/710532)
and [this other link which covers expansions in the API
generally](https://developer.atlassian.com/server/confluence/expansions-in-the-rest-api/).

## Next

The next time I look at Confluence, I'm looking forward to looking more
at some of the cool things they provide like
[Atlassian.design](https://atlassian.design/) which gives guidance on
designing apps for their system, as well as the [Atlassian Marketplace
Developer
docs](https://developer.atlassian.com/platform/marketplace/getting-started/).
But I'm not looking forward to refreshing on all the different auth
models they provide (Oauth, token, etc) and different permission
granularities (space-level, group level, etc.) which will be more
important as I look into developing a real application.
